hi this is Jeremy from craft brewing and
I'm just going to show you how I like to
really quickly use a thief to draw off a
sample of beer in order to conduct a
hydrometer reading so what I've got here
is appear that I'm really excited about
it's been fermenting for just about
three weeks it's an Imperial India black
ale that should be sexy so I want to
make sure it's good to go throw in two
keg drop hop do all that fun stuff just
to make sure it's as awesome as it
should be so step number one is I'm just
going to remove my temperature probe for
my thermo well here I'm going to take my
beautiful thief the star of the show and
I'm just going to get star sand into
that and then I like to just kind of
rock it like this make sure that
nothing's getting missed on the inside I
mean hopefully there shouldn't be any
kind of a weird infectious tissue but
better safe than sorry
so okay guys want to cut out of there
I'm also not going to spray my hands
down spray entire outside of this so
make sure that everything is just coated
in that good stuff before I do anything
else though I also because this is going
to be making contact with the inside of
the hydrometer - I also just like to
kind of give that a little squirt down
around the top of the inside as well as
just around the top outside in case you
do something stupid and accidentally
bang it then you know it's not like I'm
just rude I can just keep going so now
I've got a sanitized thief I've got a
sanitized hydrometer - here so now what
I need to do this is where things can
get a little bit dicey is I'm going to
remove this out if you don't have a
don't have a thermal oil going on it's
almost easier because you're not worried
about that whole thing
what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to place it across the heat wrap here
make sure to sanitize before I toss it
back in should it be all good
so I'm just gonna pull up disgusting
thermowell
side of the cross here six sanitizing
across there because I'm paranoid just
going to do D penetrate the car boy come
up a nice little sample see how much we
get here so now it's probably not quite
enough for a reading so I'm just gonna
try to drop a little bit more which also
mean that there's more to taste
afterwards which is really what it's all
about so now I want to drawing off
probably a little bit more than I need
this will probably overflow and
hydrometer too but I can deal with that
in a moment set my seat down get that
out of the way now of course of the
utmost importance here is maintaining a
sanitary situation so got that sprayed
down again it should be pretty good
everything was clean here before we're
just going to toss that back in there
now I've got a hydrometer sample here
but this was sitting at 70 Fahrenheit my
hydrometers actually calibrated for 60 I
could just throw the hydrometer in here
and do the little adjustment calculation
but honestly I like to get the exact
temperature and then you're not messing
around with that you're not worried
about any sort of discrepancies at all
you just know you're using the
hydrometer at the temperature that it's
intended for so I usually just like to
go and toss that in the freezer for a
couple of minutes it drops right down
use the probe thermometer and make sure
it's all good
hydrometer end